Add documentation for model signatures and examples. (#3025)
mlflow/mlflow: docs/source/models.rst

run_id
    ID of the run that created the model, if the model was saved using :ref:`tracking`.

signature
  :ref:`model signature <model-signature>` in JSON format.

input_example
  reference to an artifact with :ref:`input example <input-example>`.

.. _model-metadata:

> Model Metadata

Reviewer: The term `Model Metadata` is somewhat vague (e.g., creation timestamp is metadata). Maybe `Model Inference Metadata` would be clearer?

Reviewer: Alternatively, for more visibility, I suppose we could lift `Model Signature` and `Model Input Example` up one level and make them their own sections, rather than subsections.

Author: Yeah I agree Metadata is vague, but I would like to have signature and example under one section, not super important, but how about calling the section "Model Signature And Input Example"?

--------------
When working with ML models you often need to know some basic functional properties of the model
at hand, such as "What inputs does it expect?" and "What output does it produce?". MLflow models can
include the following additional metadata that can be used by downstream tooling:

> * :ref:`Model Signature <model-signature>` - description of model input and output.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :ref:`Model Signature <model-signature>` - description of a model's inputs and outputs.
```

> * :ref:`Model Input Example <input-example>` - example of valid model input.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* :ref:`Model Input Example <input-example>` - example of a valid model input.
```

.. _model-signature:

Model Signature
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The Model signature defines the schema of a model's inputs and outputs. Model inputs and outputs are
described as a sequence of (optionally) named columns with type specified as one of the
:py:class:`MLflow data types <mlflow.types.DataType>`. The signature is stored
in JSON format in the :ref:`MLmodel file <pyfunc-model-config>`, together with other model metadata.
Model signatures are recognized and enforced by standard :ref:`MLflow model deployment tools
<built-in-deployment>`. For example, the :ref:`mlflow models serve <local_model_deployment>` tool,
which deploys a model as a REST API, validates inputs based on the model's signature.

> The following example displays an excerpt from MLmodel file with the model signature for a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example displays an MLmodel file excerpt containing the model signature for a
```

model deployment tools <built-in-deployment>` or when loading models as ``python_function``. In
particular, it is not applied to models that are loaded in their native format (e.g. by calling
:py:func:`mlflow.sklearn.load_model() <mlflow.sklearn.load_model>`).

Column Ordering Enforcement
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""
The input columns are checked against the model signature. If there are any missing columns,
MLflow will raise an exception. Extra columns that were not declared in the signature will be
ignored. If the input schema in the signature defines column names, column matching is done by name
and the columns are reordered to match the signature. If the input schema does not have column
names, matching is done by position (i.e. MLflow will only check the number of columns).

Column Type Enforcement
"""""""""""""""""""""""
The input column types are checked against the signature. MLflow will perform safe type conversions
if necessary. Generally, only upcasts (e.g. integer -> long or float -> double) are considered to be
safe. If the types cannot be made compatible, MLflow will raise an error.

How To Log Models With Signatures
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To include signature with your model, pass :py:class:`signature object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To include a signature with your model, pass :py:class:`signature object
```

> To include signature with your model, pass :py:class:`signature object

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To include signature with your model, pass a :py:class:`signature object
```

<mlflow.models.ModelSignature>` as an argument to the appropriate log_model call, e.g.
:py:func:`sklearn.log_model() <mlflow.sklearn.log_model>`. The model signature object can be created

> by hand or :py:func:`inferred <mlflow.models.infer_signature>` from datasets with valid model input

Reviewer: I still think `input` should be made plural here. The reason is that training datasets usually contain many model inputs:

```suggestion
by hand or :py:func:`inferred <mlflow.models.infer_signature>` from datasets with valid model inputs
```

> (e.g. the training dataset with target column omitted) and valid model output (e.g. model

Reviewer: Following the same reasoning for `inputs`, I think this should be `outputs` (training datasets contain many <input, output> pairs):

```suggestion
(e.g. the training dataset with target column omitted) and valid model outputs (e.g. model
```

predictions generated on the training dataset). The following example demonstrates how to store

> model signature for a simple classifier trained on the ``Iris dataset``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a model signature for a simple classifier trained on the ``Iris dataset``:
```

    clf = RandomForestClassifier(max_depth=7, random_state=0)
    clf.fit(iris_train, iris.target)
    signature = infer_signature(iris_train, clf.predict(iris_train))
    mlflow.sklearn.log_model(clf, "iris_rf", signature=signature)

The same signature can be created explicitly as follows:

.. code-block:: python

    from mlflow.models.signature import ModelSignature
    from mlflow.types.schema import Schema, ColSpec

    input_schema = Schema([
      ColSpec("double", "sepal length (cm)"),
      ColSpec("double", "sepal width (cm)"),
      ColSpec("double", "petal length (cm)"),
      ColSpec("double", "petal width (cm)"),
    ])
    output_schema = Schema([ColSpec("long")])
    signature = ModelSignature(inputs=input_schema, outputs=output_schema)

.. _input-example:

Model Input Example
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
A model input example provides an instance of a valid model input. This may be a single record or a
batch of records. Input examples are stored with the model as separate artifacts
and are referenced in the the :ref:`MLmodel file <pyfunc-model-config>`.

How To Log Model With Example
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To include input example with your model, add it to the appropriate log_model call, e.g.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To include an input example with your model, add it to the appropriate log_model call, e.g.
```

> :py:func:`sklearn.log_model() <mlflow.sklearn.log_model>`. Example can be passed in as
> Pandas DataFrame, Numpy array, a list or a dictionary. The given example will be converted to a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:py:func:`sklearn.log_model() <mlflow.sklearn.log_model>`. An example can be passed in as
a Pandas DataFrame, Numpy array, list or dictionary. The given example will be converted to a
```

run_id
    ID of the run that created the model, if the model was saved using :ref:`tracking`.

signature

>   model signature (see below) in JSON format.

Author: good point, will do!

input_example
  reference to an artifact with input example (see below).

.. _model-metadata:

Model Metadata
--------------
When working with ML models you often need to know some basic functional properties of the model
at hand, such as "What inputs does it expect?" and "What output does it produce?". MLflow models can

> include the following additional metadata that can be used by downstream tooling:

Reviewer: Maybe a small table of contents section here would be helpful here to quickly indicate that the pieces of metadata are `Model Signature` and `Model Input Example` , since the`Model Signature` section is somewhat long.

Model Signature
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Model signature defines schema of model input and output. Both model input and output can be
described as a sequence of (optionally) named columns with type specified as one of the
:py:class:`MLflow data types <mlflow.types.DataType>`. The signature is stored

> in JSON format in MLmodel file together with other model metadata. Model signatures are  recognized

Reviewer: Can we link the `MLmodel` text to the Storage Format section? https://mlflow.org/docs/latest/models.html#storage-format

> in JSON format in MLmodel file together with other model metadata. Model signatures are  recognized

Author: good point

(and enforced) by standard MLflow model tools, such as when deploying python function as a REST API
endpoint with mlflow model serve.

Below is an example  of model signature for classification model build over well known iris dataset.
The input is 4 named numeric columns, output is unnamed integer specifying the predicted class:

.. code-block:: yaml

  signature:
      inputs: '[{"name": "sepal length (cm)", "type": "double"}, {"name": "sepal width
        (cm)", "type": "double"}, {"name": "petal length (cm)", "type": "double"}, {"name":
        "petal width (cm)", "type": "double"}]'

>       outputs: [{"type": "integer"}]

Author: good catch

implementation. Note that this enforcement only applies when using MLflow model deployment tools or
when loading models as ``python_function``. In particular, it is not applied to models that are
loaded in their native format (e.g. by calling mlflow.sklearn.load_model).

Column Ordering Enforcement
"""""""""""""""""""""""""""
The input columns are checked against the model signature. If there are any missing columns,
MLflow will raise an exception. Extra columns that were not declared in the signature will be
ignored. If the input schema in the signature defines column names, column matching is done by name
and the columns are reordered to match the signature. If the input schema does not have column
names, matching is done by position (i.e. MLflow will only check the number of columns).

Column Type Enforcement
"""""""""""""""""""""""
The input column types are checked against the signature. MLflow will perform safe type conversions
if necessary. Generally, only upcasts (e.g. integer -> long or float -> double) are considered to be
safe. If the types can not be made compatible, MLflow will raise an error.

> How To Log Models With Signature

Reviewer: ```suggestion
How To Log Models With Signatures
```

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The model signature can be :py:func:`inferred <mlflow.models.infer_signature>`

> from datasets with valid model input (e.g. the training dataset with target

Author: Not sure about input vs inputs. We use singular for the output. I think model input can mean multiple columns. Or is it because of datasets is plural?

column omitted) and valid model output (e.g. model predictions generated on

> the training dataset). To include signature with your model, add it to the appropriate log_model

Reviewer: I think we can probably include more detail here about which argument is used for the signature in `log_model()` and what the type of its value should be. Perhaps some discussion of the [ModelSignature](https://mlflow.org/docs/latest/python_api/mlflow.models.html#mlflow.models.ModelSignature) object with a link to the docs would help.

I think it would be useful to discuss this "how to specify a signature in log_model()" part first and then discuss inferring the schema below (i.e., switch the order). Finally, would it be difficult to include a small example where the  signature object is constructed manually?

Author: Makes sense.

call, e.g. :py:func:`sklearn.log_model <mlflow.sklearn.log_model>`:

.. code-block:: python

    from mlflow.models.signature import infer_signature
    train = df.drop_column("target_label")

>     predictions = ... # compute model predictions

Reviewer: Is it possible to use a real sklearn model inference API for further clarity here?

Author: Good point. I'll add a full example.

    signature = infer_signature(train, predictions)
    mlflow.sklearn.log_model(..., signature=signature)

Model Input Example
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Input example provides one or several instances of valid model input. The example can be used as a

Reviewer: By "several examples", do we mean that the example might be a batch of records? In that case, it may be clearer to say something like:

```suggestion
A model input example provides an instance of a valid model input. This may be a single record or a batch of records.
```

> hint of what data to feed the model. Input examples are stored with the model as separate artifacts

Reviewer: Are there any more details we can provide about how these might be used? E.g., are they displayed in the MLflow UI?

Author: Nope, they're not displayed in the UI yet and there is no public api to access the example - you need to read the artifact yourself. It's a good point though, we should add a way to access these in a followup.

> and are referenced in the MLmodel file.

Reviewer: Can we link this `MLmodel` text to the Storage Format section? https://mlflow.org/docs/latest/models.html#storage-format

How To Log Model With Example
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To include input example with your model, add it to the appropriate log_model call, e.g.

Reviewer: Can we talk briefly about what types of arguments are accepted (anything that can be serialized to json? something more restrictive?)

^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The ``python_function`` model flavor serves as a default model interface for MLflow Python models.
Any MLflow Python model is expected to be loadable as a ``python_function`` model. This enables
other MLflow tools to work with any python models regardless of which persistence module or
framework was used to produce the model. This interoperability is very powerful because it allows
any Python model to be productionized in a variety of environments.

In addition, the ``python_function`` model flavor defines a generic filesystem :ref:`model format
<pyfunc-filesystem-format>` for Python models and provides utilities for saving and loading models
to and from this format. The format is self-contained in the sense that it includes all the
information necessary to load and use a model. Dependencies are stored either directly with the
model or referenced via conda environment. This model format allows other tools to integrate
their models with MLflow.

How To Save Model As Python Function
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Most ``python_function`` models are saved as part of other model flavors - for example, all mlflow

> built-in flavors include ``python_function`` flavor in the exported models. In addition, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
built-in flavors include the ``python_function`` flavor in the exported models. In addition, the
```

> :py:mod:`mlflow.pyfunc` module defines functions for saving ``python_function`` flavor explicitly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:py:mod:`mlflow.pyfunc` module defines functions for saving models with the ``python_function`` flavor explicitly.
```

Author: Hmm, I am not sure about this one. The module is to save models as python function, there will be no other flavors in this case. "with python function" sounds to me like you can use to store any model that also has python function.

Reviewer: Good point. The grammar / wording of the current sentence is a bit confusing, though. How about the following?:

```suggestion
:py:mod:`mlflow.pyfunc` module defines functions for creating ``python_function`` models explicitly.
```

> This module also includes utilities for creating custom Python models which is a convenient way of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This module also includes utilities for creating custom Python models, which is a convenient way of
```

https://www.grammarly.com/blog/comma-before-which/

> This module also includes utilities for creating custom Python models which is a convenient way of
> adding custom python code to ML models. For more information, see the :ref:`custom Python models

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This module also includes utilities for creating custom Python models, which is a convenient way to
add custom python code to ML models. For more information, see the :ref:`custom Python models
```

documentation <custom-python-models>`.

How To Load And Score Python Function Models
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> You can load python_function model directly in python by calling :py:func:`mlflow.pyfunc.load_model`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can load `python_function` models in Python by calling the :py:func:`mlflow.pyfunc.load_model()`
```

function. Note that the ``load_model`` function assumes that all dependencies are already available
and *will not* check nor install any dependencies (

> see :ref:`model deployment section <built-in-deployment>` for ways how to deploy models with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
see :ref:`model deployment section <built-in-deployment>` for tools to deploy models with
```

automatic dependency management).

> Once loaded, you can score the model by calling :py:func:`predict <mlflow.pyfunc.PyFuncModel.predict>`
> method which has the following signature::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once loaded, you can score the model by calling the :py:func:`predict <mlflow.pyfunc.PyFuncModel.predict>`
method, which has the following signature::
```

Python Function (``python_function``)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
The ``python_function`` model flavor serves as a default model interface for MLflow Python models.
Any MLflow Python model is expected to be loadable as a ``python_function`` model. This enables

> other MLflow tools to work with any python models regardless of which persistence module or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
other MLflow tools to work with any python model regardless of which persistence module or
```

<pyfunc-filesystem-format>` for Python models and provides utilities for saving and loading models
to and from this format. The format is self-contained in the sense that it includes all the
information necessary to load and use a model. Dependencies are stored either directly with the
model or referenced via conda environment. This model format allows other tools to integrate
their models with MLflow.

How To Save Model As Python Function
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Most ``python_function`` models are saved as part of other model flavors - for example, all mlflow
built-in flavors include the ``python_function`` flavor in the exported models. In addition, the
:py:mod:`mlflow.pyfunc` module defines functions for saving ``python_function`` flavor explicitly.
This module also includes utilities for creating custom Python models, which is a convenient way of
adding custom python code to ML models. For more information, see the :ref:`custom Python models
documentation <custom-python-models>`.

How To Load And Score Python Function Models
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> You can load `python_function` models in Python by calling the :py:func:`mlflow.pyfunc.load_model()`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can load ``python_function`` models in Python by calling the :py:func:`mlflow.pyfunc.load_model()`
```
